HOW TO WRITE A BUMRUSH MISSION (TWC TOBRUK CAMPAIGN SERVER - 29 Sep 2020)
===================================================

So in the Gasr South/Sidi Azeiz Battle, the Reds had completed all of their 
mission objectives and so started the Bumrush period on the Sidi Azeiz airport 
late last night.

Overnight when no players at all were in the server, Blue forces successfully 
attacked and occupied the Sidi Azeiz airport. So this repelled the Red attack 
and set their forces back to square one to re-do all of their objectives 
before they could try another attack.


We don't want this to happen--where an airport is taken over via a complete AI 
attack with few (or even just 1-2) players from either side in game.

The objective is to have actually winning/occupying an airport be a fairly 
difficult action that takes AT MINIMUM a small team of (live) attacking pilots 
working together effectively in a coordinated way.

So here are the changes I made to the "Tobruk_Campaign-Rush-Blue-Sidi Aziez 
Airfield-1.mis" file to make this kind of "100% AI/no-live-player airport 
takeover" impossible. (Also I had to make one small change to the focus 
airport mission file, "FocusAirports-Gasr_el_abid SidiAzeiz.mis"--see below.)

This makes a pretty comprehensive How-To Guide for creating Bumrush missions.

There is a lot of text below, but it represents the results of about 4 weeks 
of intensive testing with the first Tobruk Battle Scenario, figuring out what 
worked and what didn't.

Sections:

 1. BIG PICTURE
 2. NECESSARY ELEMENTS OF A BUMRUSH MISSION
 3. DETAIL EXPLANATION OF EACH OF THE NECESSARY ELEMENTS
 4. MAKING A VARIANT BUMRUSH .MIS FILE 


***1. BIG PICTURE**********

The Bumrush scenarios are set up so that whichever army is ATTACKING the 
airport will NEVER succeed via AI alone or even with just a small or haphazard 
force of live pilots on their side. They will need a solid, well-organized 
group of live pilots who are able ot focus on and succe3ssfully executive 
several tasks simultaneously.

Short of this happening, by a group of live pilots (ideally, more than just 1 
or 2), the campaign will remain locked in the Bumrush phase.

The reason for this, is that the campaign should not advance--for EITHER 
side--by simple random action, by AI working alone, or by the work of a small, 
haphazard, or unorganized force of live pilots. Whichever side wishes to 
advance the map should be required to have a significant, organized, capable 
force of live pilots online working together to win a significantly difficult 
objective.

Also--if the opposing side is similar well organized, led, and focused, they 
should be able to make it very, very, very difficult for their enemy to take 
an airfield and move the front forward.

But even in absence of a significant enemy force online at a given time, one 
side still should not be able to advance the front 'automatically'.

These goals are accomplished by these means:

  
#1. AI air force units from the defending army attack incoming ground units 
regularly and vigorously, until there are enough live pilots in on that side 
to take over the job.

  - Thus live pilots from the attacking air force must fend off these attacks, 
  or the ground attack will certainly fail.
  
  - HOWEVER AI air attacks alone are not 100% reliable in killing off the 
  attacking ground forces. Many times some ground forces will slip through 
  despite vigorous and repeated AI attacks on it. So we can't rely on this alone 
  as it is not reliable enough (AI aircraft are highly variable in exactly 
  which/how many ground units they take out).


#2. The defending army has a number of ground forces near the airport and 
within 3500m of the airport center, which the attacking army MUST clear out in 
order to successfully occupy the airport.

  - These MUST be set up so that the attacking ground forces or other enemy AI 
  units **DO NOT** do the job of clearing these out. Clearing out of these units 
  **MUST** be left to players/live pilots from the attacking army.
  
  - Many of these units are set in place for players from the defending army to 
  use. That means they are AI set in place but set to "time out" for the entire 
  Bumrush period. That means that if no, or only a few, defending army players 
  are in the server these units are SITTING DUCKS for enemy pilots to destroy.
  
  - For that reason, there must ALSO be sufficient active AI AA units placed 
  near "sleeping" AA units and "sleeping" tanks to keep them at least reasonably 
  defended.


#3. To allow players (of both sides) to jump into the "sleeping" tanks and AI 
units, you must place a "Tank Spawn" spawn point along with an accompanying 
airfield and airdrome points near the focus airport

  - The spawn point/airdrome points MUST be placed on friendly or neutral 
  territory and NEVER on enemy territory (meaning, friendly/neutral territory 
  for whichever side the Tank Spawn is for) *
  
  - The Tank Spawn spawn point should be placed near the airport/airdrome points 
  that you create to accompany them (typically immediately adjacent or within 
  100m)
  
  - The airport/airdrome points that you create for this purpose must be placed 
  within 10km of the tanks or AA units you want the players to access.
    
    --> Fulfilling these two placement requirements for Spawn Points/Airdrome 
    Points simultaneously can be tricky. Typically the AA/Tanks are placed on 
    ENEMY territory yet the Tank Spawn/Airdrome Points must be placed 
    within 10km of this and on FRIENDLY or NEUTRAL territory.
  
  - Players cannot spawn directly into AA or Tanks (as of TF 5.0). So here is 
  the workaround: Usually we put just one aircraft in the Spawn Point, something 
  unarmed (Tiger Moth for Red, ME108 for Blue). The pilot spawns into this 
  aircraft, then returns to the Flag Screen to transfer to either AA or Tank 
  positions, which are nearby. The Flag Screen shows all available tanks/AA 
  within 10km of the pilot's location. Thus the necessity of placing the Tank 
  Spawn/Airdrome points within 10km of the AA/Tank positions.
  
  - If the pilot spawns out of an aircraft that is landed on enemy territory, 
  this counts as capture/death/career end etc (-stats.cs). Thus the necessity of 
  placing the Tank Spawn/airdrome points on friendly or neutral territory. IF 
  you place the Tank Spawn on ENEMY territory every pilot who spawns in/out of 
  tha tlocation will lose their career/life/rank. They will not be very happy 
  about this.
  
  - You may need to adjust the front lines (..focus-airports.mis) in order to 
  make the placement possible. Just adjust the front line so that there is some 
  friendly or neutral territory within 10km of the Focus Airport and then place 
  the Tank Spawn & associated airdrome points in that area.


#4. End Result: Once in Bumrush Phase, we stay there unless some live 
pilots/players come in and actively/effectively intervene in support of the 
ground attack/occupying force.

  - If no live players (or only a few not doing anything effective) are in the 
  server, every Bumrush scenario MUST play out this way:
  
    - The Attacking force sends ground troops to occupy the airport
    
    - Enemy AI air force flies against the attaacking round forces & kills many or 
    most of them.
    
     - Quite a number of defending forces are placed near the airport 
    (within 3500m) and no automatic/AI action is taken to kill or remove them.
    
    - For both of those reasons (ground troops coming to airport attacked & killed 
    by AI, defending forces around the perimeter NOT attacked or removed) the 
    AI-only attack NEVER succeeds. The Bumrush period ends unsuccessfully and the 
    other side gets a chance ot attack the airport.
    
    - For the same reasons (in reverse), that counterattack also (ALWAYS!) fails, 
    unless a number of live pilots/players come in and take active/effective/
    coordinated action to support the ground attack.
  
  - In short, the desired result is that the attack on the airport NEVER 
  succeeds by accident or by AI action alone. It only succeeds if the attacking 
  ground forces have some real, effective, coordinated, support from live 
  players--and more than the amount of support that just 1 or 2 players will be 
  able to provide.
  
***2. NECESSARY ELEMENTS OF A BUMRUSH MISSION*******************  

In a Bumrush, we have an Attacking Army and a Defending Army.  To win, the 
Attacking Army must:

  - PLACE more than 6 ground units within 500 meters of the airport center
  
  - CLEAR the area within 3500m of the airport center of ALL enemy ground and 
  AA/artillery unites
  
  - HOLD this situation (>6 friendly units at airport center, 3500m zone clear
   of all enemy ground units) for 5 minutes.
  
  - The Attacking Army has 90 minutes to accomplish this. However, if they 
  achieve the PLACE & CLEAR requirements before the 90 minute deadline, the 
  deadline is extended by up to 5 minutes to allow them to hold for required 5 
  minutes and declare victory.

To defend, the defending Army must simply prevent the above three conditions 
from happening for 90 minutes.

The 10 necessary elements of a Bumrush .mis file:  

#1. Six Attacking Army ground groups coming towards the (exact!) center of the 
Focus Airfield. They are generally spaced in time to arrive starting at the 
15-20 minute mark, and then arrive every 10-15 minutes through the 90 minute 
mark.

  - If you want to make the Bumrush more or less easy/hard for 
  attackers/defenders you could add say 1 more or 1 fewer enemy attack grounds.
  
  - If your ground groups arrive too clumped together or too widely spaced in 
  time, the mission doesn't work well. There are long pauses with no action or 
  the AI defense forces are overwhelmed. Generally don't make ground groups 
  arrive at the airport more closely spaced than 10 minutes or much more widely 
  spaced than 15 minutes.
    
#2. 4-8 Attacking Army tanks/armoured units placed 3-5km away from the airport on the attacking army side and set to "time out" for most or all of of the mission.  These are for Attacking Army players to hop into and operate.

For example, Attacking Army players could jump into their tanks and drive them 
onto the airport. They would become part of the >6 ground units needed by the 
Attacking Army on the Airfield to occupy it.

  - Blue, Pz.Kpfw.IV Ausf. D works for this role
  - Red, Matilda IIA Tank, Vickers Mk. VIC Tank work for this role
  
  --> Note that ****SOME**** other tanks & armor will work for these roles 
  but you absolutely MUST test them first to be sure players can operate them.
  
  --> For example, Matilda IIA Late Tank, Vickers Mk. VIB Tank, Pz.Kpfw.IV Ausf. 
  E. Pz.Kpfw.IV Ausf. F, and many others with VERY SIMILAR NAMES to the tanks 
  listed above DO NOT WORK as player-controlled ground units. 
  
  Crusader II DOES NOT WORK as a player-controlled tank.
  
  --> You can test whether a tank works as player-controlled by "play mission" 
  in FMB and then jump into that vehicle using your assigned keyboard command. 
  
#3. An Attacking Army Spawn Point (Tank Spawn) and associated/nearby Airdrome 
and Airdrome Points. This should be placed on friendly/neutral territory and 
within 10km of the Attacking Army tanks/armoured units. This is so that 
Attacking Army players can spawn into those tanks/armoured units & operate 
them.

#4. Defending Army Ground Group #1. DA Group #1 begins within 3500m of the 
Focus Airfield, stays generally on the Defending Army side of the airfield, 
DOES NOT enter the airfield area or get close to any Attacking Army ground 
group track.

#5. Defending Army Ground Group #2. DA Group #2 begins many km on the 
Defending Army side of the airfield, travels towards the airfield, and arrives 
within the 3500m circumference of the airfield about 45 minutes into the 
mission. From that point it acts similar to DA Group #1, remaining constantly 
within the 3500m radius of the airport but staying off of the airfield itself 
and carefully avoiding any contact with enemy ground groups for the duration 
of the mission (90 minute Bumrush period).

 --> The Attacking Army must clear the area within 3500m of the airfield center.  So these to GGs are elements that Attacking Pilots must destroy.  We don't want Attacking AI GGs to destroy them (pointless); thus the careful avoidance of any contact between Attacking GG and Defending GG paths.  These are like defensive units that don't have ammo/fuel/sufficient numbers/clearance from HQ to actually engage the enemy, but that remain in the area in a defensive role.
 
#6. 4-8 Defending Army tanks/armoured units placed 3500m or less from the airport on the attacking army side (suggestion: 3000m or less, for a safety margine) and set to "time out" for most or all of of the mission.  These are for Defending Army players to hop into and operate.  Additionally, they act as a part of the DA ground units within the 3500m perimeter that AA must clear.

  --> See note above about which tanks/armored vehicles work & don't
  work in this role. Most DO NOT work.  Test.

#7. An Defending Army Spawn Point (Tank Spawn) and associated/nearby Airdrome and Airdrome Points.  This should be placed on friendly/neutral territory and within 10km of the Defending Army tanks/armoured units and ALSO within 10km of the Defending Army AA/artillery units on the Focus Airfield.  The purpose of this Spawn Point/Airdrome Points is so that Defending Army players can spawn into those tanks/armoured units & operate them. Players first spawn into an airplane using the Spawn Point/Airdrome Points; they can transfer from there to tanks or AA/artillery units with 10km.

  --> You may need to adjust the Front Lines for this mission (which are set in 
  the Focus Airports .mis file), so that friendly or neutral territory is 
  located within 10km of the Focus Airport and the AA/artillery units and 
  tanks/armour you place in the area for players to use. Then be sure to place 
  the Spawn Point and (most important!) the airdrome points where the player 
  will actually spawn into an airplane, on that neutral or friendly territory.

  --> This becomes even more complicated because most Bumrush files will be used 
  with TWO Focus Airport .mis files! So you'll have to double-check that each 
  Tank Spawn Point/Airdrome point you place for EACH army will be placed 
  appropriately on neutral or friendly territory for WHICHEVER Focus 
  Airport .mis file you're using. When designing the Front Lines in y our Focus 
  Airport .mis files, keep the Front Lines close enough to the both focus 
  airports to allow for this.

  --> Penalty for players if they spawn into an aircraft in enemy territory and 
  then leave it, is end of life/career. That is why it is important that spawn 
  points/airdrome points (even "Tank Spawn" points) be placed in friendly or 
  neutral territory only. If you get this wrong, many players will be unhappy.

#8. Defending Army AI AA/artillery units to protect DA tanks.  Suggest 2-4 units placed near the tanks.  "Bofors - Standalone" for Red army & "Bofors" for Blue army. Purpose: To make it a bit harder for Attacking Army players to clear the tanks from the 3500m perimeter, even if no DA players are online; also form part of the DA ground units AA players must clear from the 3500m perimeter.

  --> Note that many/most AA/artillery DO NOT WORK as player-controlled. Only a 
  select few do. Bofors do, and work well--one reason I have used those 
  exclusively. Test.

  Documentation/more info about player-usable AA/artillery: 
  https://theairtacticalassaultgroup.com/forum/showthread.php?t=34228&p=364260&viewfull=1#post364260

#9. Defending Army AI AA/artillery units to protect the airports. Suggest 2-4 
units placed around the perimeter of the Focus airport. "Bofors - Standalone" 
for Red army & "Bofors" for Blue army. Purpose: To attack any Attacking Army 
ground units that reach the Focus Airport, defend nearby "sleeping" 
AA/artillery units and the airport itself. Also they are a portion of the 
Defending Army ground units the Attacking Army players must clear from the 
3500m perimeter.

#10. Defending Army player AA/artilley units. Suggest 6-8 units placed around 
the perimeter of the airport, or on it, or nearby. "Bofors - Standalone" for 
Red army & "Bofors" for Blue army. These are for Defending Army players to 
jump into and operate. They should be set up on "timeout" the entire mission 
so that they do not operate as AI units, but only if a live player jumps in an 
operates them.


          
***3. DETAIL EXPLANATION OF EACH OF THE NECESSARY ELEMENTS**********

Here is a list of problem found with a particular Bumrush .mis file, and the 
adjustments made and reasons the adjustments were necessary.

The mission file under development was the Blue attack bumrush mission for 
Sidie Azeiz (Tobruk_Campaign-Rush-Blue-Sidi Aziez Airfield-1.mis).

This example explains many of the particulars, potential problems, and reasons 
for the guidelines above.

#1. Red (defensive) column #1 starts within 3500m of the center of the airport 
and moves around within that 3500m perimeter throughout the entire 90 minutes, 
but NEVER circles the airport and NEVER comes within range of a blue column

  - I use a lot of short "timeouts" in the waypoints so the group isn't just 
  stationary for 90 minutes. Instead it makes a small move, then waits 2-10 
  minutes, then another move, etc.  So it hangs around the area where we need 
  it, moves sometimes but not continuously, and never moves into any area 
  where it might get into trouble (ie, onto the airfield, where it is bound
  to encounter enemy ground groups, or near the path of any enemy ground group).  
  
  - The defending ground groups are like a ground group that has taken a defensive position on their side of the airport but doesn't have the ammo/support/numbers/something to go 
  on the offensive against the nearby enemy ground groups. So they are taking a 
  defensive position, waiting for reinforcements, and generally taking a 
  defensive stance but not actively attacking enemy ground groups in the area. 
  (In fact if anything they are actively AVOIDING the enemy ground units. This 
  is for server reasons (ground groups duking it out against each other destroys 
  the server CPU while not affording any realistic way for the pilots to 
  participate or adding anything particular to the live player's experience) but 
  also we can come up with plenty of real-world reasons why a group of ground 
  forces might act this way.)
  
  - If they leave the 3500m circumference of the airport then they are not 
  counted as enemy which the attacking airforce must clear out to clear the 
  area. So 100% of the time they must stay within the 3500m radius. The only way 
  for attacking forces to get them out of this radius is for players/pilots to 
  come and kill them.
  
    -> If you drive the group out of the 3500m radius, you have done defending 
    pilots' job for them, for free. -> If you drive them close to enemy ground 
    groups, the enemy ground group will kill them, again doing the job the live 
    pilots/players are supposed to do.
  
  - The fact that this force was circling the airport perimeter and coming into 
  contact with the enemy ground forces, which killed it, was one reason the Blue 
  (attacking) forces were able to take this airfield with zero effort or 
  intervention by Blue pilots last night.

#2. Red (defensive) column #2 starts somewhat distant from the airport and 
arrives within the 3500m perimeter about 45 minutes (halfway) into the bumrush 
period. After arriving within the 3500m perimeter it circles around on the 
"red" side of the airport, much like column #1. It avoids going onto the 
airport or moving into any position which might get it into a firefight with 
Blue ground forces. It just circles around on the red side and just outside 
the airport perimeter.

  - This amounts to reinforcements for column #1's defensive position arrive 
  about halfway through the bumrush
  
  - This keeps pressure on the attacking air force pilots--even if they have 
  cleared out the 3500m perimeter in the early part of the bumrush battle, there 
  is this second column approaching and entering the perimeter around the 45 
  minutes mark, so they have to keep attacking/clearing the area & can't just 
  rest on their laurels.
  
  - To adjust the time of arrival at the 3500m perimeter, I just move Waypoint 
  #0 in or out a little until the desired arrival time (10:45 in this case) 
  shows on the waypoint nearest the 3500m perimeter point. This is the same 
  trick I use to adjust the arrival times for all the ground groups (see below).
  
  - Like Column #1, once the ground group is inside the 3500m perimeter I start 
  adding some timeouts to their waypoint, so they may move 500-1000-2000 meters, 
  then wait (timeout) 5-10 minutes, then move again, wait 2-10 minutes, etc. 
  This keeps them within the required 3500m perimeter and on the red side of the 
  airport for the required period of time, without keeping them entirely 
  stationary and predictable in their location (which make them a bit of sitting 
  ducks for enemy pilots).

#3. Red (defensive) tanks placed within the 3500m airfield perimeter. If they 
are placed too far away--say, 5000m--then they do not count as part of the 
ground defenses that the attacking air force must clear from the area in order 
to win.

  - The fact that this force was placed outside of the 3500m perimeter, and thus 
  did not count as part of the ground force that the attacking air force had to 
  clear, was one reason the Blue (attacking) forces were able to take this 
airfield with zero effort or intervention by Blue pilots.

#4. Red (defensive) Tank Spawn airfied/airdrome points moved to a point 
outside of enemy territory, but still within 10 km of all tanks & AA that we 
want the Red (defensive) players to be able to spawn into.

  - I had to adjust the front lines in the ..focus-airports.mis file in order to 
  be able to place this spawn point properly
  
  - I just adjusted the front markers to expand "no man's land" until there was 
  a piece of no-man's land within 10km of the airport/all of the Red AA/tanks
  
  - If the spawn point/airfield is more than 10km from the AA/tanks then players 
  can't move from the Tiger Moth they have spawned into, to the AA or tank they 
  want. (I believe 10km is the limit for showing available AA/tanks on the flag 
  screen.)
  
  - If the spawn point/airfield is on enemy territory then when players spawn 
  into an aircraft there and then move out of the aircraft to an AA or tank, 
  -stats.cs counts that as "landing on enemy territory" which will usually get 
  the player killed/imprisoned/career lost, etc. So we need the point where they 
  spawn into the aircraft to be either on friendly OR neutral a territory. (Yet 
  also, as explained above, within 10km any any tank/AA they might want to spawn 
  int.)

#5. 3 or live AA (Red-defensive) placed on the airport or generally around the 
perimeter. This could be may 2-4 live AA, or maybe even 5-6. But if it is less 
than 2 or 3 it makes it FAR too easy for the attacking army's pilots to just 
fly around the airport and surrounding area with no opposition whatsoever and 
just pick off all the defenses off one by one.

  - These are part of the "safety net" that prevents the airport from being 
  overrun by enemy ground forces with no intervention at all from the attacking 
  air force players. If the AI AA are live on the airfield, they will shoot and 
  kill any enemy ground forces that come onto the field. So (minimally!) to 
  allow a successful ground invasion, the attacking players will have to attack 
  & kill these AI AA installations placed on/around the airfield.
  
  - Any individual AI AA unit often has a bad angle, small hill (or even crater) 
  interrupting its line of fire, etc, and so isn't able to singlehandedly take 
  care of any enemy ground units that arrive on the airfield. That is why it is 
  better to have 2-3-4 AI AA placed in the area; among them all usually at least 
  one has the needed line of fire.
  
    -> This is another reason to make sure invading ground forces have their final 
    waypoint very near the center of the airfield; this is more likely to place 
    them within a good line of fire of at least one of these AI AA units. If they 
    line up way off to the side they can easily be out of the line of fire.
    
    -> This function is another reason to stick with Bofors as the AA AI; they are 
    proven to be able to handle this function whereas other AA AI may be defeated 
    by the ground forces instead.
  
  - Most of the defensive army (Red, in this case) defenses are "timed out," in 
  place for live players to be able to jump into them & use them, and won't do 
  anything to defend themselves in cases where there are few/no defensive 
  players online. In that case they are just sitting ducks unless there are at 
  least some minimal level of AI defenses in place around the airport to defend 
  them.
  
  - I've followed the convention of using "Bofors - Standalone" for the Red army 
  and regular "Bofors" (ie, the kind mounted on a little wheeled trailer) for 
  Blue army. Thus both sides have an AA unit with similar capabilities & 
  firepower, but the two are visually differentiated for pilots.

  --> Note that many/most AA/artillery DO NOT WORK as player-controlled. Only a 
  select few do. Bofors do, and work well--one reason I have used those 
  exclusively. Test.

  Documentation/more info about player-usable AA/artillery: 
  https://theairtacticalassaultgroup.com/forum/showthread.php?t=34228&p=364260&viewfull=1#post364260

#6. I placed 6-8 "Bofors Standalone" around the field that are "timed out" and 
so inactive/won't be operated by AI. But they are available for live players 
to jump into and use to defend the airport. ALSO (and IMPORTANT!!) they become 
part of the group of enemy ground forces that the attacking air force players 
must clear from the field in order to occupy it and take it over.

  - I just put these Bofors on "timeout" for 12 hours, which means they will 
  just sit inactive for our entire mission (90 minutes Bumrush) unless a player 
  jumps in to operate them.
  
  - Again for consistency/visual ID/known to work correctly I use "Bofors 
  Standalone" for Red & "Bofors" for Blue for this function.
  
  - The fact that airfield did not have any of these "timed out" Bofors placed 
  around it is one reason that the Blue ground troops were able to take over 
  this airfield even though zero live pilots from either side where in the 
  server at the time.
  
  - Coming in & clearing the airfield of both the live & "timed-out" AA units is 
  one of the first jobs the attacking air force pilots will need to do if they 
  want to have success in attacking & occupying the airfield.

#7. I adjusted all Blue (offensive) ground columns to end their routes pretty 
much exactly in the center of the airfield. Technically we are looking at, the 
columns must be within the 500m radius of the center of the airfield to count 
as "occupying" it. But if you put the end waypoint near 500m, some vehicles 
may end up within the 500m radius, some just outside of it, etc. Best just to 
keep that final waypoint within 100m of the airport center point for safety.

#8. For PLAYER-OPERATED TANKS: Changed Matilda IIA Late tanks for Matilda IIA. 
Remove Crusader II tanks (replaced with Matilda IIA). Changed Armor.Pz_IVE, 
Armor.Pz_IVF etc to Armor.Pz_IVD.

These tanks DO NOT WORK as player-controlled vehicles (TF 5.0):

 Matilda IIA Late
 Crusader II
 Armor.Pz_IVE
 Armor.Pz_IVF
 Vickers VIB
 A bunch of others
 
These DO WORK as player-controlled:

  Matilda IIA
  Vicker VIC
  Armor.Pz_IVD
  A VERY FEW select others
  
  Documentation about this (which vehicles/AA work/don't work as player-controlled):
  https://theairtacticalassaultgroup.com/forum/showthread.php?t=34228&p=364260&viewfull=1#post364260

#9. I looked at the point of arrival of each attacking ground group (ie, the 
time of the final waypoint near the airfield center point) and adjust them so 
that they arrive generally 10-15 minutes apart, and spaced throught the entire 
90 minute bumrush period.

  - If you clump the ground group arrivals too close together then there is a 
  short period of intense activity and then long periods--before and after--of 
  nothing.
  
  - Also the AI air defenses that are set to attack these groups are just 
  overwhelmed if a bunch of ground groups all arrive at once. So then some of 
  them get through and that is what allows the airfield to be overtaken with 
  zero activity by attacking air force players. Which is what we DON'T want.
  
  - If we want a bunch of ground groups to arrive at once then we'll have to 
  also calibrate AI air defenses (which kick in when there are few or no 
  breather pilots in-game on that side) to be able to handle a whole bunch of 
  ground groups attacking at once. The result of that won't be good--it will 
  just cause massive slowdowns to the server as AI battles AI in massive battles 
  while few or even NO live players are online. So, that is pointless.
  
  - Also I added one more Blue ground attack. That makes 6, which seems about 
  the right amount.
  
  - I generally set the arrival time of the first group somewhere around 15-20 
  minutes after the start of the Bumrush and then roughly spaced out 10-15 
  minutes, or maybe 20 minutes, apart thereafter.
  
  - The final group should be set to arrive in the final few minutes of the 
  bumrush period (the final 5-10 minutes or so?) - if you don't have something 
  set to arrive during that time frame there is nothing going on and so, little 
  point in having the bumrush extend that long.
  
  - On the other hand there is no point in having the groups come trailing in if 
  they don't arrive by the 90 minute mark. It will just make players made if 
  they have been fighting to clear the path for them to arrive safely, and then 
  time just runs out before they get on the field. Also I don't know that the 
  time estimates given in the Waypoint fields are 100% accurate, so I try not to 
  cut it *too* close to the 90 minute mark.
  
  - I check the time of arrival by simply looking at the time given for the 
  final waypoint (at the center of the airport). This seems to be accurate 
  enough.
  
  - I adjust the arrival time by just moving the first waypoint (Waypoint #0) in 
  or out a little until the desired time (final waypoint time) is achieved.
  
  - The course of these groups is set so as to avoid (pointless) firefights 
  between Red & Blue ground columns. I just make the courses of the two armies' 
  ground groups entirely avoid each other, and by a wide enough margin that they 
  won't "see" each other and start shooting.
  
  Here are the arrival times of the Blue groups as I set them up:
  
  (Mission starts at 10:00) 
  
    * Chief_23 - 10:21
    * Chief_4 - 10:37
    * Chief_2 - 10:53
    * Chief_3 - 11:04
    * Chief_5 - 11:13
    * Chief_1 - 11:24
  
  So you can see they start arriving at the airport around 10:21 (at the 
  center--they will be near the perimeter about 5 mins before that) and a new 
  group comes every 15 mins or so thereafter. Towards the end there they are 
  more like 10 mins apart, so there is a sort of accelerando as the bumrush 
  progresses (which is one way, but not the only way, to do it).


***4. MAKING A VARIANT BUMRUSH .MIS FILE*****************

Once you have a bumrush .mis file that you KNOW works (suggestion: test), then 
it is easy to make a variant second .mis file. 

Two variant bumrushes for each side/each focus airport is usually enough to 
make it interesting/unpredictable for players when the battle comes back 
around, but nothing is stopping you from making 3 or 4.

--> If you have an airport that keeps getting hit over and over and over again over the course of a campaign, it is probably worth it to make 3 or 4 or even more distinct bumrush files for each side.  That way, when that airport comes up again it is still fresh & different--and the details a bit unexpected--each time it comes up. But you (easily) manufacture these variants over the course of a campaign as needed. 

Suggestion: Test your first .mis well before you do this; otherwise you're 
changing problems/errors in 4 or 8 different files which isn't fun.



#1. Bumsush file .mis name will have the same beginning & a different suffix 
at the end. Check your PosXXX.cs file for the details of how you have set this 
up. But for example your initial .mis might be "Tobruk_Campaign-Rush-Red-Sidi 
Azeiz Airfield-1.mis" and "Tobruk_Campaign-Rush-Red-Sidi Azeiz Airfield-2.mis" 
is your variant.

#2. If your ...PosXXX.cs file is set up correctly, then when a bumrush starts, 
either one of these files will be selected randomly.

#3. Start with the (known working) -1.mis file and save it with the different 
filename (...-2.mis)

#4. Scramble around the AA locations on the airfield into a different logical 
setup.

 - Maybe you add or subtract 1 or 2 active and/or timed-out AA, just to 
keep things a bit unpredictable for players

#5. Move the tanks for both sides into a different logical location. (Be sure 
to keep the defending tanks WELL WITHIN 3500m of the airfield center. Make 
sure tanks of both sides are still within 10km of the Tank Spawn location.)

 - Maybe you add or subtract 1 or 2 tanks for each side, for variety

#6. You have already set up the ground group attacks for each side in a 
logical sequence. So all you do is: 

  A. Look at each ground group, find out 
what time it arrives at the key location (for attacking ground groups--in the 
center of the airfield; for defending--within the 3500m "must-be-cleared" 
radius) 

  B. Change the path of the ground so it is different (comes in from a 
different logical direction etc) but **still arrives at its key point within a 
few minutes of the previous time**)

   -> So for example you find an attack group that comes in from the SW and 
   arrives at 11:09. Just change it to come in from NW and arrive at 11:08.


   -> Repeat similarly for each of the 6 attacking & 2 defending groups (these are the normal amounts for each side. For variety you 
   could add/subtract and extra ground group of course).

#7. Now you have a variant of the original Bumrush file that still has the 
same general dynamics--ground groups arriving from different directions 
throughout the entire mission, etc.

       -> Save the file
       -> Done